Plants can respond to environments experienced by previous generations through a process called transgenerational plasticity (TGP). TGP is a process whereby parental environmental effects alter phenotypic and genotypic expression in progeny. Theory predicts that TGP can evolve when the environment is temporally autocorrelated, when there is genetic variation in the norm of reaction, and when the cost of responding to the environmental cue is low. While previous research provided some insight into how TGP is induced and persists, the distinct genetic components which mediate TGP and that contribute to its evolution are less well understood. *Mimulus laciniatus* offers a tractable study system for investigating TGP and its evolution across an elevational and geographic gradient. It is a self-fertilizing species with ample genetic resources and a short generation time, and it is endemic to parts of Sierra Nevada Range where year-to-year climate parameters are temporally autocorrelated. To characterize the genetic basis of natural variation for both within-generation plasticity (WGP) and TGP to temperature, we employed a Multiparent Advanced Generation Inter-Cross (MAGIC) scheme cross constructed from six parental inbred lines. For recombinant inbred line panels generated from three distinct 4-way crosses of these parents, we simulated diurnal temperature patterns from the warmest (H) and coldest (C) environments experienced by natural populations in a full factorial design to measure and map quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for offspring phenotypes across all parental x offspring combinations (C x C, H x C, H x H, and C x H). In addition, to identify candidate genes mediating TGP within these QTLs, we performed RNA-Seq of the parental lines to identify which genes within the QTL intervals are genes differentially expressed between C × C and H × C treatments. While our preliminary mapping results indicate an absence of QTL for TGP or WGP in all measured traits, we did identify that floral tube length and anthocyanin response to cold temperature (C x C) are determined by a rather simple genetic basis. Additionally, our transcriptomic results suggest that transgenerational effects alter global gene expression in offspring, and this response is population-specific. Continued efforts to characterize the genetic basis of transgenerational plasticity would benefit from functional validation of candidate genes. 
